Felix is a young mouse living with his parents and siblings in the vast golden fields of [name of place].  He is the youngest mouse, small and thin, but surprisingly sturdy. He looks weak, but his body is covered in tiny scratches stemming from his explorations in the near woods and rummaging through the thorny wild growth near the river. His older sibling taught him how to take care of tiny wounds and he deals with them on his own successfully most of the time, because he avoids alerting his parents of his trips beyond the borders they deem ‘safe’ for the children. If he needs help bandaging, he usually turns to his brother Fabian, because he is the most understanding and has the patience to listen to the details of Felix’s endeavors even though he has no such ambition of his own. It is Fabian who tells Felix that it is okay to accept help every now and then, but Felix does not want to hear it.
Felix has always been fascinated by stories of heroes conquering great challenges and is especially proud of one featuring his own great-grandmother, Delilah, whose story is passed on through the family. Ever since he heard the story of how the traveled the world all on her own, facing and overcoming dangers wherever she went while hunting for treasure and rescuing the helpless people that were occasionally accompanying her, he made up his mind to become a seasoned adventurer just like her. He also grew convinced that he wants to do it all on his own, since from his grandmother’s story he concluded that other people are there to be rescued and more of a hindrance than helpful when adventuring. 
He grows increasingly upset with his parents’ attitude towards him, because they tend to treat him like a little child unable to do anything on his own, often asking his siblings to help him when doing even the tiniest tasks (which some siblings, in turn, get very annoyed of and take their anger out on Felix) or giving him the easiest tasks available. One of the tasks the parents usually give him is collecting herbs near the river, because they always lecture him not to go near it and the water flows slow and tame most of the time.
Felix, however, started dreaming the second he first saw the running water, wondering where he would end up if he followed the stream. Where he would be washed ashore if he just dove in and allowed the water to carry him along. What adventures would await him? That was when he started to build a raft. By now, it is practically finished. Nobody except him knows it is there, mostly hidden in a clearing in the thick wild growth on the river’s shore. One day, Felix tells himself whenever he thinks he cannot take it anymore, one day he will take this raft and leave. He’ll travel the worlds, rescue strangers and conquer foes, leaving gasps of awe and impressed murmurs in his wake. And when he came home as a seasoned adventurer, nobody would dare belittle him anymore. 
The day, or rather night our story begins, it is autumn. Felix is awake looking outside of the tiny window next to his bed in the attic. The night sky is clear and stars are twinkling as if each is trying to surpass the others. If you know where to look and squint your eyes, you can see one hidden amongst them, dimmed down and almost invisible. They call it the winter star, a tiny star that is hardly noticeable throughout the year but will shine the brightest once the cold sets in. Once the world is covered in white, its beautiful frost blue illuminates the nights even when the moon hides itself. But this star’s time has yet to come.    
The thoughts of winter closing in motivate the mouse family to prepare and hoard. Every day they go out to find food to store or preserve so they will be safe and well-fed over the winter months. The oldest siblings are allowed to go into the woods to hunt for mushrooms and berries (even though Felix knows the woods much better than them because he often sneaks in there to find materials for his raft when the parents don’t look), while he is banned from the woods and basically every interesting place because he is too young, might get hurt, is too fragile… the reasons given are endless and unnerve him more every time he hears them.

Like every day, his parents send him to collect herbs by the river and dismiss his pleading to join the others in the woods for once. They tell his big brother to get the basket for Felix from the top of the shelf, but Felix wants to get it himself.
[insert choice here – try to climb on top of the chair to reach it on your own or allow your brother to get it for you.
If you try to get it yourself, you will reach it, but then your other sibling does something next to you and distracts you, so you slip and Fabian has to catch you. A fight ensues, in which you blame the other sibling for distracting/sabotaging you while you are called clumsy. You are shut down by the parents that shoo you out of the house because the days become shorter and you have work to do. 

If you allow your brother to get it for you, your face shows that you are sulking. Your brother hands it to you trying to be cheery, ‘Here you go buddy’. The other sibling (hating the bugs in the woods by the way and would thus love to search for herbs by the river instead) snarkily says something along the lines that you cannot do anything on your own and Fabian should come along to carry the basket for you. Fabian calmly tells sibling B that you do a very good job all on your own and are able to tell poisonous herbs from edible ones, while sibling B collected poisonous stuff the other day. Ashamed, sibling B grabs their own Basket and storms off, slamming the door shut. You and Fabian follow, the parents yelling that you need to take care and be back by sundown.].

Outside, your brother tells you that you shouldn’t listen to sibling B. He knows that you are capable of taking care of yourself, but there’s nothing wrong with accepting a little help every now and then.

[Insert choice here – react positive (smiling half-heartedly) ‘Yes, I guess you’re right’, neutral (doubtingly looking down) ‘if you say so(, but they don’t treat me like that)’ or negative (snapping at him) ‘oh don’t lie, everyone here thinks I’m helpless, even you’
Positive response – Tapping your nose playfully. ‘I know that frown. You do not really believe me, do you? But you know what? That’s fine. I know that you are very well capable of dealing with things on your own, but I’ll have your back whether you ask me to or not. And before you know it, everyone will realize how grown-up you are. So for now, cheer up and get us some herbs, will you?’

Neutral response -  ‘I know it’s hard to be treated like a helpless child. But [sibling] is just bitter because they suck at their job and our parents are worried sick that something might happen to you. They don’t mean to hurt you, they are just scared. And yes, I know that it is unfair. I’ll try to talk to them about it after the winter, so we can go explore the woods together next year. Does that sound good?’ 
[insert choice. ‘Yes… thanks’ or ‘Nevermind’
Yes – ‘Okay, buddy. Now, off you go. And I expect a bunch of herbs this evening!’
Nevermind – ‘if you don’t want to, I’ll not address it. But tell me if you change your mind… okay? Well, see you this evening, then. Take care.’] 

Negative response – obviously hurt by your words. ‘No. No I do not think that. And it is sad that you believe I’d help you only out of pity. You are my family and I want to support you, but if you don’t want me to… well, then I probably should just stop. See you later, then.’]

Felix proceeds to the river to do his job. Next to him feeling treated like he is helpless by getting only this job, it also makes him feel alone. His siblings are together in the deep woods (which, by the way are an exciting place: there are stories about magical beasts and fairies living there and he could swear that one time, when he snook back into the house after sunset, he had seen mysteriously flickering and dancing lights in the forest), he is also bored while doing his work, because he has no one to talk to. His brother Fabian is never with him, because he is needed elsewhere. Even though Felix has trouble admitting it, he sometimes thinks that he would like a friend. But since this is conflicting with his vision of himself as the solitary adventurer, he cannot accept this and pushes the thought aside whenever it arises. If he wants to be recognized as the self-sufficient individual he is, he needs to do it on his own, he thinks.

After a while (the basket it about ¾ full, he decides to take a break to check on his raft, pulling out of the bushes into the sun. He marvels at it. It took so much work but now it is almost done. The sail made out of colorful rags flaps in the wind. He sits on the rough wood of the raft and stares at the shimmering water, dreaming about the adventures he could have if he just sailed away. 
[insert choice here, what you want to dream about
A pirate island – You imagine yourself fleeing the cave after stealing the treasure of the pirates. You are quicker and smarter than them, laughing and carrying the loot as if it weighs nothing, the roaring and cursing pirates on your heels. But they’ll never catch you. Finally, they stand on the beach, shaking their fists and hooked arm stumps at you in rude gestures as you sail away on their ship.
A magical desert, riding sand sharks or something ]

Felix abruptly awakens from his daydreaming as the wind carries the lovely sound of his siblings nagging voice over, complaining that he is probably. Dammit, he thinks. Of all people this is the last person to see the raft, but it sounds like they’re pretty near already. You here the leaves rustle with every step.  If they see the raft – who knows what will happen. They will make fun of him for sure. But even worse, they could tell their parents. They will never let him out of their sight again. It takes too long to hide the raft in the bushes again without breaking something or tearing the sail. What should he do?

[Insert choice – 
Try to hide the raft – you give the raft a push, but it moves so slow, and a thorn gets entangled immediately in the fabric of the sail as you reach the bushes, ripping a small hole into it. No, you think, no, you cannot destroy it because of your sibling. There needs to be another way. If you could only distract them somehow [proceed to the other choices]. 
Say nothing, grab your basket and run towards them –  as fast as you can you run towards your sibling, losing part of the herbs. You do not just reach them, you practically run into them, sending both of you tumbling to the ground. Your basket is launched into the air and the herbs you spent hours collecting flutter through the air around you like drunken fairies. ‘What the…?!’ your sibling exclaims, pushing you off themselves and rubbing their butt that is obviously throbbing after they landed on it. ‘What is wrong with you, running around like that. Look at this mess! You really can’t do anything on your own.’ You both get up and pat earth, dust and leaves off your clothes. ‘I just came to fetch you because dad says a storm is coming. Stupid, isn’t it? There is not a cloud in the sky, but you know how he insist on stuff. So it seems you will come back empty handed today. Good job.’ You follow them back to the house, looking at your feet, the empty basket swings by your side. Your mom will be so disappointed. There is a cheerful rhythm in your sibling’s steps as you are approaching the house, being convinced that they have just been proven right in their opinion that you are a good-for-nothing. But it was worth it, wasn’t it? The raft is safe… for now. You glance at the sky before entering the house. Not a cloud in sight, but also, your father has never been wrong about a storm coming. He says he can feel it in his old bones. Oh, how you wish that only this time, his predictions won’t come true. 

Shout ‘Snake!’, grab your basket and sprint towards them - as fast as you can you run towards your sibling, losing part of the herbs. ‘Snake!’ you shout again on sight, ‘I saw a giant snake!’. Your sibling is utterly unimpressed and sidesteps as you run towards them so you do not crush into them. ‘Snakes? Here?’ They ask and their voice is full of doubt. ‘There are no snakes around here, fool. What a great way to waste hours of work.’ They point at the trail of herbs u lost. ‘But whatever. I just went out of my way to fetch you because dad says a storm is coming, so I’m afraid those left in the basket will have to do. Stupid, isn’t it? There is not a cloud in the sky. But he insists, so let’s go.’ You walk back in silence. That could have gone worse. But is your raft truly safe now? Even if your sibling is a mean little rat, they are right, there is no cloud in the sky. But also, your father has never been wrong about a storm coming. He says he can feel it in his old bones. Oh, how you wish that only this time, his predictions won’t come true.

Shout ‘these damn bugs!’ and make a ruckus – the steps stop and you hear a half-choked shriek. ‘Bugs?!’  ‘Yes, everywhere!’ you respond while you grab your basket and proceed quickly towards your sibling, continuing to act as if you were trying to shake a million tiny insects from your body. As they come into sight, you see that they stand as far away from the bushes as possible. ‘I think one might have crawled int my ear’, you say mockingly. ‘Would you check?’ You turn your head, but your sibling jumps backwards, thoroughly disgusted. ‘Eww, no, stay away you …’ They glare at you. ‘I just came to fetch you because dad says a storm is coming, so I hope you have found your share of herbs. Stupid, isn’t it? There is not a cloud in the sky. But anyway, let’s go. And don’t walk so close to me, will you? I don’t want even one of these dirty little creepers crawling onto me. ’ You follow them back to the house, looking at the sky, then back over your shoulder. For now, the raft is safe and yes, there is no cloud in the sky. But also, your father has never been wrong about a storm coming. He says he can feel it in his old bones. Oh, how you wish that only this time, his predictions won’t come true.

But they do. 

In the middle of the night, Felix wakes up to pouring rain and rolling thunder. And there is only one thought on his mind as he watches lightning illuminate the night in a blinding flash: The raft. Out in the open, the sail ready for the wind to blow into it and carry it away. All those hours spent on building it, all those dreams and possibilities that would disappear alongside it if the wind drags it onto the river and far, far away. He would be stuck. Forever.
Felix gets up, his tiny heart beating like a drum in his ears. He needs to safe the raft. He gets dressed as quickly and silently as he can. His mind is working non-stop as he proceeds down the stairs. As he reaches Fabian’s door, he hesitates. Should he try to wake him up? Would Fabian help? Would he understand that they needed to safe the raft?

[insert choice 
Knock – thunder is rolling. If Fabian is awake, it doesn’t seem to have heard you knocking. No one has realized you are out of your bed as of now. Maybe you should go on your own. He will not understand. He might try to stop you.
Knock again – Thus time, you hear something moving inside, then steps before the door creaks open. ‘What’s up?’, Fabian says yawning. ‘Can’t sleep because of the…’ he stops, realizing that you are fully dressed. ‘I need to go to the river,’ you say firmly, but you clench your fist to stop your hands from shaking. ‘You – what?’ Fabian looks utterly confused. 
	[1 insert choice

‘I need to save my raft’ – ‘Your raft? You built a raft?’ You nod, teeth clenched. He shakes his head. ‘Okay, that is amazing, but, Felix… we can’t go out there now. It is dangerous.’
	[2 Insert choice
‘I need your help. Please.’ – ‘We will build a new raft. I’ll help you, I promise, but we cannot go out there right now. It’s too dangerous’.
	[3 insert choice
‘Okay, you are probably right’(lie) – You let your shoulders drop as if you were defeated. Your brother comforts you, saying that he is so proud of you to have built a raft all on your own and that he can’t wait to do it together with you. You nod and trot back to your room. But no way in hell you’re going to stay there. Not while the raft you built all on your own, the thing that proves you are capable of creating something all on your own. You wait as long as you can before going crazy, then sneak out into the pouring rain.
‘I knew you wouldn’t understand it! I’m gonna do it on my own!’ - you run off before Fabian can react. He shouts your name as you rush towards the exit, waking up the others. You hear doors opening and stirred up voices as you run out of the door and into the pouring rain as fast as you can.]]
‘If you don’t want to help I’m gonna do it on my own!’ – you run off before Fabian can react. He shouts your name as you rush towards the exit, waking up the others. You hear doors opening and stirred up voices as you run out of the door and into the pouring rain as fast as you can.]
‘I need your help’]
Proceed downstairs alone (see below)] 
Proceed downstairs alone ]
